[PL-46816] Update Single Sign-On (SSO) with SAML SCIM API settings details (#6472)
harness/developer-hub: docs/platform/authentication/single-sign-on-saml.md

If the [Harness Self-Managed Enterprise Edition](/docs/self-managed-enterprise-edition/get-started/onboarding-guide) version is not accessed using the HTTPS load balancer, SAML authentication will fail. Make sure you access the Harness Self-Managed Enterprise Edition version using an HTTPS load balancer, and not an HTTP load balancer.
:::

## Supported formats

The XML SAML file used with Harness must use UTF-8.

UTF-8 BOM is not supported. Some text editors like Notepad++ save in UTF-8 BOM by default.

:::info note
When integrating users through any SAML provider, it is important to note that users added to an external SAML provider are not automatically synchronized with Harness user groups. Synchronization occurs upon the first login by the user belonging to a specific provider's user group into Harness. Only at this point will the newly added user, having logged in through SAML, inherit all permissions and access rights associated with the Harness group linked to the Okta user group.

:::

## Use System for Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM) protocol

> To ensure continuous and real-time synchronization of user group bindings and access controls, it is recommended to utilize the System for Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM) protocol. SCIM enables real-time syncing of user additions with Harness user groups, ensuring that user permissions and access rights are consistently applied and maintained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure continuous and real-time synchronization of user group bindings and access controls, Harness recommends that you utilize the System for Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM) protocol. SCIM enables real-time syncing of user additions with Harness user groups, ensuring that user permissions and access rights are consistently applied and maintained.
```

For implementation details and further guidance on provisioning users with SCIM, go to [Okta SCIM](/docs/platform/role-based-access-control/provision-users-with-okta-scim), [Microsoft Entra SCIM](/docs/platform/role-based-access-control/provision-users-and-groups-using-azure-ad-scim), and [OneLogin SCIM](/docs/platform/role-based-access-control/provision-users-and-groups-with-one-login-scim).

### SCIM API integration settings

> If you provision users and groups via SCIM API, use the following for your SAML integration.

Author: ```suggestion
If you provision users and groups via SCIM API, use the following settings for your SAML integration.
```

- **SCIM connector base URL:** `https://app.harness.io/gateway/ng/api/scim/account/<YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID`
   - Replace `YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID` with your Harness account ID.
   The URL depends on the Harness production cluster you use: Prod1: `https://app.harness.io`, Prod2: `https://app.harness.io/gratis`, or Prod3: `https://app3.harness.io`.

> - **Unique identifier:** field for users: `userName`

Author: ```suggestion
- **Unique identifier:** `userName`
```

- **Authentication Mode:** HTTP Header
- **Authorization:** `<YOUR_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_TOKEN>`

You must also do the following:

- Enable provisioning to Harness.
- Assign your user groups.

> - Push your groups.

Author: ```suggestion
- Push your groups to Harness.
```

	3. Keep this page open. You will come back to it later in this process.

5. In **Audience URI (SP Entity ID)**, enter `app.harness.io`. The SAML application identifier is always `app.harness.io`.
6. In **Default RelayState**, enter a valid URL. This is the page where users land after a successful sign-in using SAML into the SP.
7. In **Name ID format**, enter the username format you are sending in the SAML Response. The default format is **Unspecified**.

> 8. In **Application username**, enter the default value to use for the username with the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. In **Application username**, enter the default username.
```

If a user is a member of a larger number of groups, the groups are omitted and a link to the Graph endpoint to obtain group information is included instead.

To invoke the API, Harness requires **Client ID** and **Client Secret** for your registered app.

To get this information, do the following:

1. In your Azure, go to **App registrations**.
2. Click on your app. Copy the Application (client) ID and paste it in **Client ID** in your Harness account.
3. In your  account, go to **App registrations**. Click **Certificates and Secrets**.
4. Select **New Client Secret**.
5. Add a description and click **Add**.

> 6. Make sure to copy this secret and save it as an encrypted text secret. For detailed steps to create an encrypted text in Harness, go to [Use Encrypted text Secrets](../secrets/add-use-text-secrets).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. You must copy this secret and save it as an encrypted text secret. For detailed steps to create an encrypted text in Harness, go to [Use Encrypted text Secrets](../secrets/add-use-text-secrets).
```

Users are not created as part of the SAML SSO integration. Users are invited to Harness using their email addresses. Once they log into Harness, their email addresses are registered as Harness Users. For more information, go to [SAML SSO with Harness Overview](#saml-sso-with-harness-overview).
:::

### Users in over 150 groups

When users have large numbers of group memberships, the number of groups listed in the token can grow the token size. Microsoft Entra ID limits the number of groups it will emit in a token to 150 for SAML assertions.

If a user is a member of a larger number of groups, the groups are omitted and a link to the Graph endpoint to obtain group information is included instead.

To invoke the API, Harness will need **Client ID** and **Client Secret** for your registered app.

To get this information, do the following:

1. In your Microsoft Entra ID account, go to **App registrations**.
2. Click on your app. Copy the Application (client) ID and paste it in **Client ID** in your Harness account.
3. In your Microsoft Entra ID account, go to **App registrations**. Click **Certificates and Secrets**.
4. Click New Client Secret.
5. Add a description and click Add.

> 6. Make sure to copy this secret and save it as an encrypted text secret. For detailed steps to create an encrypted text in Harness, go to [Use Encrypted text Secrets](/docs/platform/secrets/add-use-text-secrets).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. You must copy this secret and save it as an encrypted text secret. For detailed steps to create an encrypted text in Harness, go to [Use Encrypted text Secrets](/docs/platform/secrets/add-use-text-secrets).
```

#### Exchange Harness Consumer URL and OneLogin Metadata

1. In **Home**, click **Authentication** under **ACCOUNT SETUP**. **The Authentication: Configuration** page appears.
2. Click **SAML Provider**. The **Add SAML Provider** page appears.
3. In**Name**, enter a name for the SAML SSO Provider.
4. Select **OneLogin** under **Select a SAML Provider**. The settings for OneLogin setup are displayed.
5. Copy the provided URL under **Enter the SAML Endpoint URL, as your Harness OneLogin application's ACS URL**, to clipboard.
6. In OneLogin, add the **Harness** app (for SaaS setup) or **Harness (On Prem)** app for Harness Self-Managed Enterprise Edition setup. To do so, perform the following steps:
	1. Log in to OneLogin.
	2. Click **Administration**.
	3. Under the **Applications** tab, click **Applications**.
	4. Click **Add App**.
	5. Find **Harness** or **Harness (On Prem)** based on your setup, and then click the app.

	   ![](./static/single-sign-on-saml-101.png)

7. In **Configuration**, paste this URL into the **SCIM Base URL** field.

   ![](./static/single-sign-on-saml-102.png)

8. Skip all other **Application Details** fields, and click **Save**.

> 9.  Navigate to OneLogin's **Applications** > **SSO** tab. At the upper right, select **More Actions** > **SAML Metadata**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Navigate to OneLogin's **Applications** > **SSO** tab. At the upper right, select **More Actions** > **SAML Metadata**.
```
